35: I became very interested in the difference between those who do and those who might have done.
41: You don't have to tell other people, but shouldn't you say to yourself, ``Yes, I would like to do something significant.''
45: I find that the major objection is that people think great science is done by luck.
47: ``Luck favors the prepared mind.''
49: Newton said, ``If others would think as hard as I did, then they would get similar results.''
50: Once you get your courage up and believe that you can do important problems, then you can.
63: When you are famous it is hard to work on small problems.
69: For example, many scientists when they found they couldn't do a problem finally began to study why not. They then turned it around the other way and said, ``But of course, this is what it is'' and got an important result.
71: ``You would be surprised Hamming, how much you would know if you worked as hard as he did that many years.''
73: the one person who manages day in and day out to get in one more hour of thinking will be tremendously more productive over a lifetime.
73: You have to neglect things if you intend to get what you want done.
77: Great scientists tolerate ambiguity very well. They believe the theory enough to go ahead; they doubt it enough to notice the errors and faults so they can step forward and create the new replacement theory.
83: `If what you are doing is not important, and if you don't think it is going to lead to something important, why are you at Bell Labs working on it?'' I wasn't welcomed after that;

87: If you do not work on an important problem, it's unlikely you'll do important work.
87: It's not the consequence that makes a problem important, it is that you have a reasonable attack.

91: I thought hard about where was my field going, where were the opportunities, and what were the important things to do. Let me go there so there is a chance I can do important things.

95: The great scientists, when an opportunity opens up, get after it and they pursue it. They drop all other things. They get rid of other things and they get after an idea because they had already thought the thing through.

101 op: He seems to be deeply unsatisfied with the status quo and is constantly looking for way to change it and improve it. First, when he jointed the Bell Labs, he saw that we was different from, or maybe than, Shannon et. al. and he started asking the questions ``why'' and ``how to change that''. Secondly, he used to change tables we would eat his lunch at to keep learning and keep discovering what important problems in other fields were. He even challenged his lunch-mates on why they don't work on important problems, as if it made him uneasy (like me). Thirdly, even the fact that he was doing super successful work was not satisfying for him, because he was ``only'' solving single problem instances. He wanted his work to be more general and further-reaching, so he decided to change his approach and take every single problem he faced to recast it into an instance of a more general problem and then he proceeded to adapt instance-based solutions to something that fits the more general framework, thereby created a very general solution to the whole class of problems. Now, this approach takes a lot of additional work despite what he says about it, but the work itself has the potential of being applicable in many other cases, useful for others and therefore memorable.
With tracking, I've solved a single instance of the problem. I haven't describe the general algorithm or the underlying principles of how or why it works, but it would be much useful and much general if I had. I think it would be interesting to revisit the problem and find out. It's not about tracking, it's about how and why exactly attention and attention-bbox decomposition is useful from the learning and function-approximation perspectives.

105: The business of abstraction frequently makes things simple.

Selling
109: You had better write your report [...] as the readers are turning the pages they won't just turn your pages but they will stop and read yours
110: You have to learn to write clearly and well so that people will read it, you must learn to give reasonably formal talks, and you also must learn to give informal talks.
115: The technical person wants to give a highly limited technical talk. Most of the time the audience wants a broad general talk and wants much more survey and background than the speaker is willing to give.

Summary
117: If I really believe the action is over there, why do I march in this direction? I either had to change my goal or change what I did. So I changed something I did and I marched in the direction I thought was important. It's that easy.

Educating your boss: 119-123
Personality Defects: 131-144
139: ``The appearance of conforming gets you a long way.''

The wise man's approach to fighting the system: 145-
147: I am not saying you shouldn't make gestures of reform. I am saying that my study of able people is that they don't get themselves committed to that kind of warfare. They play it a little bit and drop it and get on with their work.
149: Now you are going to tell me that somebody has to change the system. I agree; somebody's has to. Which do you want to be? The person who changes the system or the person who does first-class science?

The importance of setting deadlines: 155-
155: I was surprisingly capable. I have found that it paid to say, ``Oh yes, I'll get the answer for you Tuesday,'' not having any idea how to do it.


Side-note: Why Reading >> Listening/Watching
I've always been a fan of reading and I thought it's cognitively superior to both listening and watching, that it is more engaging and, oddly enough, more interactive. I never quite thought about or could explain why I think that. Surely listening to an audiobook must have exactly the same merits as reading a book, no? Well, I've always thought listening to an audiobook is just lazy. Now, here's the reason I think I've been using all this time but couldn't quite verbalise:

Listening is passive in the sense that you cannot stop and think about it. That's why it's easy to watch even though-provoking movies and block them out, doze off. While you can think about what's going on, you have very limited time to do so because new content is streaming in. Even if you doze off for a second, you may not notice or easily ignore it when your attention is captured by a new development.

You can do that while reading a book, too, but at least for me, it has been much more-easily noticeable and harder to cope with. I hate not understanding a paragraph and I always try to re-read enough it times to understand it before going further. I also pause often and reflect on what I've just read, exactly how I'm doing now, reading this talk. This sparks a conversation with the author, allows me to think about causes and consequences, permits me to understand deeply. This makes reading much more active and also interactive then simply listening or watching.

181: How the WW II shaped later discoveries:
Because many of us were earlier forced to learn other things - we were forced to learn the things we didn't want to learn, we were forced to have an open door - and then we could exploit those things we learned.

189: Brainstorming:
What you want to do is get that critical mass in action; ``Yes, that reminds me of so and so,'' or, ``Have you thought about that or this?'' When you talk to other people, you want to get rid of those sound absorbers who are nice people but merely say, ``Oh yes,'' and to find those who will stimulate you right back.

199: If you read all the time what other people have done you will think the way they thought. If you want to think new thoughts that are different, then do what a lot of creative people do - get the problem reasonably clear and then refuse to look at any answers until you've thought the problem through carefully how you would do it, how you could slightly change the problem to be the correct one.

207: Public talks are necessary; private talks are necessary; written papers are necessary. But I am inclined to believe that, in the long-haul, books which leave out what's not essential are more important than books which tell you everything because you don't want to know everything. I don't want to know that much about penguins is the usual reply. You just want to know the essence.


215: I wouldn't even read papers to try to force myself to have a chance to do something else. I managed myself, which is what I'm preaching in this whole talk. Knowing many of my own faults, I manage myself. I have a lot of faults, so I've got a lot of problems, i.e. a lot of possibilities of management.

219: When your vision of what you want to do is what you can do single-handedly, then you should pursue it. The day your vision, what you think needs to be done, is bigger than what you can do single-handedly, then you have to move toward management.
